# Preface

The transition to 5G is happening, and unless you've been living under
a rock, you've been bombarded by the hype. But if you are like 99% of
the systems-oriented, CS-trained, cloud-savvy, IETF-participating,
people in the world, the cellular network is largely a mystery. You
know it's an important technology used in the last mile to connect
people to the Internet, but otherwise you've largely abstracted it out
of your scope-of-concerns.

The big thing to understand about 5G is that it implies much more than
a generational upgrade in bandwidth. It involves transformative
changes that blur the line between the access network and the
cloud. And it will embody so much value that it has the potential to
turn the "Access-as-part-of-Internet" perspective on its head. We will
just as likely be talking about "Internet-as-backend-to-Access" ten
years from now.

This book is written for someone that has a working understanding of
the Internet and Cloud, but has had limited success penetrating the
myriad of acronyms that dominate the cellular domain. In fairness, the
Internet has its share acronyms, but it also comes with a sufficient
set of abstractions to help manage the complexity. It's hard to say
the same for the cellular network, where pulling on one thread
seemingly unravels the entire space. It has also been the case that
the cellular network had been largely hidden inside proprietary
devices, which has made it impossible to figure it out for yourself.

This book is the result of a cellular networking expert teaching a
systems person about 5G as we've collaborated to build an open source
5G system. The material has been used to train other non-expert
software developers, and we are hopeful it will be useful to others
that want a deeper understanding of 5G and the opportunity for
innovation it provides. Readers that want hands-on experience can also
access the open source software introduced in the book.

This book is likely to be a work-in-progress for the foreseeable
future. It's not intended to be encyclopedic—favoring perspective
and end-to-end completeness over every last bit of detail—but we do
plan to flesh out the content over time. Your suggestions (and
contributions) are welcome.

Larry Peterson and Oguz Sunay, ONF  
August 2019
